---
layout: post
title: Why 'Sleeping Beauty' is So Frustrating
date: 2021-10-13T16:00:16.195Z
header_feature_image: ../uploads/article12-headerimage.jpg
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
tags:
  - ""
---
There are few people who are unaware of the story of Sleeping Beauty; a gorgeous princess cursed to death and saved by changing that to a death-like slumber. There are many versions of it, yet the most popular tend to be the most frustrating. A peaceful life unaware of impending doom cut short by the only decision she seems to make in the entire story. She awakens and immediately enters a serious romantic relationship with a total stranger. Yet we know very little about her as a person or character, because she lacks something vital to any major character. And that is agency.

Sleeping Beauty's story is quite well known. Be she Aurora, Briar Rose, or unnamed, she remains a beautiful, graceful, blessed young woman. But nothing is said about her as an individual. Is she clever? Brave? Hardworking? Does she have a favourite food or colour? Does she have any pets? Friends? Is she close with her parents? We know none of these things in the main three versions (Perrault, Grimm and Disney). Her defining traits are the name of the story- she is a beauty cursed to sleep. The eponymous character is the least active of the story, and that makes her the most frustrating fairy tale princess.

Are there any other main characters that do nothing to contribute to the story? Name one. Even Snow White, the other sleeping princess that puts consent in question through non-consensual relationships during adolescence, makes an effort. She meets the dwarves, she gets involved domestically, and she interacts with others in ways that have consequences to the plot. Sleeping Beauty does not. The only thing she does to shape the plot are prick her finger (an accident) and start a family (which is either presumed at the ending or very much glossed over, as it just seems to happen rather than be a decision). This lack of agency, of autonomy, of any kind of self, is why the story is so frustrating. There is nothing to this character that has any true meaning.

"But she's a classic fairy tale princess! Little girls love her!" Why? Why do they love her? Because she's pretty? Because they love how well she gets on with animals in the Disney film, which is a staple of the Disney Princess brand? Because Philip was their favourite prince? It certainly wasn't because she had anything of substance to her. Disney took Grimm's story (which removed the cannibalistic mother-in-law, the most interesting part of the story) and made it even worse by removing the one decision she makes. A curious attempt to learn how to spin becomes an enchantment, a symptom of magical hypnosis. They then added a dragon (which was an upgrade) and killed her (I oppose this) to make the prince seem more heroic and committed than that of his previous iterations. This may have made it more cinematically dramatic, but it also made it far more infuriating. Aurora does nothing of note in the entire film. She sings, dances (charms of the original twelve good fairies), sobs after finding out she can't see the person she only just met again, faints dramatically, and wakes up after non-medicinal, non-consensual, kiss.

Personally, I far preferred the live action *Maleficent* and its sequel. Not only because they restored the evil fairy having a genuine motive (originally, she was excluded from the guest list for reasons that would have been enough to go to war over) rather than just a grudge against a baby. Not only because the story was more enticing, or that it reinstated the evil mother-in-law (though no cannibalism in this version). But because everyone in that film had agency. They made decisions. They played a role in the shaping of the story. Aurora makes decisions and builds relationships and has characteristics other than looking pretty when unconscious. This newer version of Aurora makes mistakes because she makes choices, and as with all people she does not always choose well, but is capable of learning from them.

So, for the TLDR, Sleeping Beauty is the most infuriating princess because she fails the sexy lamp test of feminist film theory in all traditional versions of it. She has so little character as to be replaceable by an inanimate object and the plot could continue unaltered. And for this reason, almost any modern version is preferable to the traditional, as the characters have personalities and autonomy.