---
layout: post
title: Unpublished Does Not Mean Unworthy
date: 2023-07-14T13:00:47.717Z
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
W﻿attpad. FanFiction.net. AO3. These are major publishing platforms for Joe Anybody to share their work with an audience without gatekeeping or fees. They are founts of the bizarre and wonderful, and build communities and authors. Sometimes they are also a place for writers to gain income from this work, be it on the platform or by moving on from it with an established audience. More often though they are passion projects meant to simply make a work accessible to the masses.

Open access digital stories can hugely vary in quality. They range from the infamous, like the *My Immortal* fanfic, to the hugely successful, such as *The Martian*. Anybody with internet access can write on platforms ranging from those designed for a single author's work, to library-style collections, to blogs and social media posts. This is the nature of media online. This disparity means there are those who will not read books that are not traditionally published. They rely on the quality control provided by publishing houses.  Not a bad idea. Publishing houses need to ensure their products meet their criteria, so there is a self-determined standard they hold their stories to. This is part of the service readers pay for in buying that book. But that does not mean stories that have not gone through this process all lack merit. There are many online by people who have honed their writing skills and produce quality stories. After all, some books are picked up from digital platforms to be traditionally published. They are recognised for their quality not just by their enthusiastic fans, but by companies who stake income and reputation on the stories accepted and books they produced.