---
layout: post
title: Crafting Doesn't Have To Be Functional
date: 2023-07-07T14:30:43.155Z
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
M﻿aking something is inherently a task with purpose. When you knit or sew or crochet or bake or sculpt, you are producing something; there is a goal, an end result. Sometimes, however, it feels like because you are shaping something that the something in question must be functional to justify the time and money put into it. This is not the case.

M﻿ost of my craft projects have been toys. I make amigurumi animals because its fun and they're cool. However, I learnt to knit and crochet to support emergency staff. My first proper thing was a knitted breast I made for a student midwife for lactation consulations. I learnt to crochet to make for the [Octopus for a Preemie UK](https://octopusforapreemie.co.uk/) charity. I've researched [Bobby Buddies](https://www.hampshire.police.uk/news/hampshire/news/news/2019/september/bobby-buddies-officers-give-teddy-bears-to-children-living-with-domestic-abuse/#:~:text=...%20Knitted%20police%20officer%20teddy%20bears%20are%20being,exist%20when%20police%20attend%20after%20a%20domestic%20incident.) and Innocent smoothie hats and [twiddle muffs](https://www.ouh.nhs.uk/patient-guide/documents/twiddle-muffs.pdf). But despite this, all my other projects have been fun bits of nonsense for friends and family. Animals and characters to sit on shelves and bring a smile, and that is ok.

H﻿istorically, crafting was about survival or exhibition. For the less economically stable, it was an income source and a cheaper way of making clothes and goods for yourself and the family. For the wealthy, it was proving your skill at a craft the same way accomplished musicians do. This hasn't changed much now. Crafting is about some combination of function or decoration, and my makes definitely lean towards the latter. And that is ok. I don't have to make my own clothes and home goods. I am allowed to make aesthetic nonsense like a [The Knitcromancer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WtfGTsSnMNg&cbrd=1) cat to hide around the house menacingly, like a bookcase dragon, like a goblin for a growing pile of dice in my household. Fun bits of stuffing and yarn are allowed to sit on and dangle from an assortment of surfaces for no reason other than amusing pops of colour.

I﻿ do not have to spend my leisure time producing sensible usable products. Clothes, teapot cozies, place mats; all valid items I have no immediate plans to make. The big classic projects are seen as aspirational. Jumpers and blankets are the biggest two in yarn-based spaces. Milestone projects. Something to hold up and say 'I made this! I am officially accomplished and proficient!'. Which is nonsense. A project is not a certificate to justify your place among other crafters. Nor is it obligatory to be part of crafting communities or to progress as a crafter.

T﻿herefore I will continue to make skeins into yarny beings that sit atop shelves of dangle from computer screens or sit and stare supportively/judgementally at the recipients. And I will do this without feeling ashamed that I am not making something more worthwhile. Because when it comes to crafting, worthwhile only means was it worth expended effort, and the appreciation these pieces get makes me believe that yes, they are.