---
layout: post
title: Ebooks Will Never Replace Physical, But They're Still Excellent
date: 2023-06-23T15:00:58.705Z
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
The first ebook's creation is contested,  including possibilities of the 70s' Project Gutenberg, or a [90s floppy disk](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2014/mar/12/ebooks-begin-medium-reading-peter-james). Regardless of the format's origins, digital editions of books are are undeniably popular and widely accessible. Despite their many benefits, and the many fear-mongering commentaries at the time, ebooks will never replace physical books. This is a good thing, and does nothing to diminish the value of the format itself.

Many vouch for the tactile benefits of the physical. The smell, sound of a page turn, abilities to annotate and apply marginalia. Debates rage over hardback versus paperback, the additional aesthetic elements like edge decoration and special covers. The satisfaction of seeing them lined up on shelves, whether its your own or to be added to yours. Tangible copies can be shared between readers without penalty, and signs of aging provide character and charm in the eyes of many. But there are also many positive attributes of ebooks, primarily convenience-based. Digital books are easier to transport and store thanks to their lack of form. They can be converted, updated by publishers as required, annotated (dependent on reading platform), and the formatting can be adjusted to suit the reader's preferences. Regardless of personal preference, both have irrefutable advantages.

D﻿oomsayers worry ebooks will eradicate physical copies. This is ridiculous. New technologies are always hailed as the end, people taking it to extremes to make a point or a joke. Ebooks will no more replace books than films replaced theatre or CDs replaced concerts. Digitisation centres making content more accessible and affordable. It typically does not aim to eradicate other mediums. There will always be people who continue to choose more tradtional formats. This could be for personal taste, technological barriers, financial limitations, or accessibility restrictions. There will always be holdouts whatever the reason. 

B﻿ooks are still books in their many formats just as audiobooks still count as reading. Their purpose is to share a story. Format taste varies just like genre preferences. Ebooks will never fully replace physical copies, but that isn't the objective. Providing different formats is about sharing the story with more people at greater convenience;and ultimately, isn't that the reason books came about to being with?