---
layout: post
title: Getting Started with Yarn Crafts Cheaply
date: 2023-07-28T13:30:22.630Z
image: ../uploads/2023-07-28-header-image-by-kelly-sikkema-of-unsplash-.jpg
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
A﻿s with anything, the price point of yarn crafts can vary hugely. Yarns varying from under a pound to over twenty; hooks and needles cheaper than chips or as expensive as big night out; assorted accessories and tools adding up to exorbitant amounts. While some talk about how pricey it can be, there are easy basic ways to start off cheaply.

T﻿he first option is to lower your standards for materials. People talking about how expensive it is are spending lots on high quality stuff that beginners do not yet need. In most cases a second hand pair of needles or set of hooks from a local charity shop of from eBay (or equivalent) will do fine to begin with. Bargain balls of yarn are fine for early projects where it's more important to get the stich right consistently than to demonstrate total mastery of fibre art. 

T﻿his is not to say that spending more won't make a difference. A different fibre type may be necessary if the project has a particular purpose or if the recipient has texture sensitivities. Experimenting with different needles and hooks may make it more pleasant or accessible. But to test if the activity is appealling, you do not have to spend huge quantities from the offset for what is essentially an experiment.

P﻿atterns are another money drain crafters complain about. There are three main methods of reducing price: buying books, the library, and using free ones. Most yarn companies have lots of free patterns online. They may be on their own website, available through online yarn retailers, or on platforms like Ravelry, YouTube, and blogs. Indie designers often have free web editions of their patterns alongside their ad-free for-purchase PDFs and EPUBs. Libraries often have subscriptions for magazines and books available for rent on all kinds of handicrafts for public perusal. Many now also have digital content catalogues that do not require travelling to the library in-person to make the most of their resources. And finally, per pattern, books are often cheaper than individual patterns, especially when bought second-hand or at a discount retailer. Capitalising on cheaper patterns will maximise your personal capital.

And people often forget yarn crafts are fairly popular. Going onto a local community page and asking if anyone has any materials they are trying to get rid of, or if a knit and natter group has any surplus can be an easy way to both meet others in your area involved in the hobby and get materials cheap. Family and friends may also have items they no longer want and would be happy to pass along to a beginner. (The key here is manners and be willing to collect and/or pay to avoid the impression you are mooching off strangers.) It is the more tailored version of an eBay search. Ravelry and similar sites also have search options to find people ridding themselves of unwanted stash, again allowing connection to crafters. Others with more experience may also be willing to provide advice if approached politely and at a good time. Yarn crafts are not as niche as many believe (writer Stephanie Pearl-McPhee suggests there are likely more knitters that golfers) and are often recognised as one of the more welcoming digital communities.