---
layout: post
title: "'Coraline' is Creepier and Warmer Than Expected"
date: 2023-06-16T15:30:49.650Z
image: ../uploads/2023-06-16-header-image.jpg
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
When the film was released in 2009, *Coraline* was a colourful stop-motion animation that children were either enthralled or terrified by. The story is a great little adventure akin to a creepier *Alice's Adventures in Wonderland*, with equally ineffectual adults and games with far darker consequences. Now, over a decade later, I finally read the novel by Neil Gaiman, and must admit. It is both far creepier and far more confident than I would've thought. 

[T﻿his YouTube series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y2d1XYcMTDY&list=PLZqMA-B7h5X9Rwnfgvjkr-PZGE1YPdaGD&pp=iAQB) explores differences between the book and film, along with the videographer's theories. I saw this before listening to Gaiman's reading of his book. (Side note, the music in the Neil Gaiman edition reminded me of the songs in *The Series of Unfortunate Events* CDs.) The settings were more offputting, colours being used to unsettle rather than delight. Pink and green bedroom, and a smoke grey star covered jumper rather than one of vivid blue. The colour-change tunnel actually being dark and stretching and some sort of alive. The one exception is the door that starts this adventure. Rather than a small cupboard door in the wall, there is a huge one with a lock that clunks and creaks depending on the side. Every warning sign was covered in a lacquer of child-friendly colouring, enticing in the youthful audience much like the Other Mother's lures.

Y﻿et the narration gives a far greater sense of competence and confidence than the film elicits. Coraline is by no means unafraid, even crying at times. But she typically has a plan at the ready and thinks ahead for the best way to handle the dangerous situations she finds herself in. The book protagonist is more capable and prepared, collecting provisions and setting traps. Film Coraline is far more reactive, more reliant on those around her for assistance and protection, likely due to the exaggerated isolation the written representation experiences, having to fend for herself against the malevolent and far creepier Other Mother. This increased awareness is reassuring, as Coraline is more concious of the threat posed by the world on the other side of the door. The limited third person narrative presented is Coraline's perspective; we recognise danger because she sees the warning signs, making her survival more probable.

I﻿t is ultimately the relationship between Coraline and the other children that distinguishes the tones of the two tellings. The film has only brief warnings between the ghosts, and the irritation of Wybie. The book has more details on the warm interactions between Coraline and the spectres of the former victims. She comforts them and helps them recover parts of themselves. Rather than a brief omen, Coraline has the extended playdate and picnic  dream. Though they also impart warnings, these children tell her directly of the threat and provide reassurance of her capabilities before they leave tp places unknown, finally freed. The four of them get to be children, playing and laughing without danger spying on them, lurking. Despite the tense conclusion and end of the hand, it is these mostly wholesome parts that truly give the book warmth and a respite, even as the ghost children tell her the perilous truth of her situation in both instances. There is genuine care shared between the four of them, a bond formed through shared circumstances and a wish to help one another escape the clutches of a threat. Their hopeful support is what gives the book a wamer tone the film lacks despite its brighter colours and more tempting facade.

B﻿ased on these observations, *Coraline* is different to what the film and other analysis suggested. Although it is more threatening and ominous, as the many dissections imply, they all seem to emphasise how the danger is more present and evident, and how allies are in even shorter supply. They fail to pair this with the increased astuteness on the protagonist's part, or how the allies she has are more precious and interlinked as a result of this scarcity. While Gaiman's original telling is indeed darker than Silek's vivid depiction, the author's intent was shown in his choice of foreword, and rings more true in his own work than its reinterpretations.

Fairy tales are more than true: not because they tell us that dragons exist, but because they tell us that dragons can be beaten. — G. K. Chesterton.