---
layout: post
title: Murder of the Author
date: 2023-05-26T14:00:02.837Z
image: ../uploads/2023-05-26-header-image.jpeg
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
"The author is dead"; "Separate art from artist". This is increasingly common as people are holding creators accountable and being more concious of prejudices within works. So how do we consume material we enjoy by those whose views are problematic (or worse)? Simple. Don't mourn the author, kill them. (Note: this is a literary metaphor, not permission to commit murder.)

D﻿eath of the author is a literary theory from literary critic Roland Barthes. He discusses the futility of authorship and the assignation of piece to creator, as intended meaning is lost once it leaves the custody of private ownership to enter public awareness. "Writing is...the negative where all identity is lost, starting with the very identity of the body writing." (Barthes, 1977, p142) He argues idolising the author as a genius is only relevant to critiques, and that the only true interpretation of a text is that which exists within readers. "The reader is the space
on which all the quotations that make up a writing are inscribed without any of them being lost" (Barthes, 1977, p148), and the concept of authorial supremacy must be overthrown; "the birth of the reader must be at the cost of the death of the Author." (Barthes, 1977, p148). In summary, to write is to release control and connection to a work in the eyes of the public, and this is for the best because giving control over a text's meaning to the author is pointless to the majority of the audience.

According to Barthes, the author is dead; they killed their own voice by disseminating their work beyond where they themselves could present it. But even so, public conception of an author holds them as The Authority on their work. Canon is held in high esteem (generally) as it is the original text that appealled to consumers enough for the spinoffs, headcanons, and fan works, to be produced. Their interpretation is the intent behind. Yet we The People can collectively decide to ignore them and write our own meaning, or choose to recognise and then ignore it in favour of alternative concepts. *Every Breath You Take*, for example, was originally intended to portray a surveillance state, or a possessive and unhealthy ended romantic relationship, yet numerous people consider it incredibly romantic and even play it for wedding dances.

I﻿n order to kill the murder the author (again, metaphorically), certain things must happen. First, they themselves must be severed from their works in the eyes of the consumer, who still remains critical of the discrimatory elements of the book. No consumption of interviews by them about the meaning; no research into their lives to parse meaning and context from the subtext. The work has been released. Think of it as a captivity-bred animal released into the wild. It was born and raised in the custodianship of the artist responsible, but it was never intended to remain there and the emphasis should be on the life it has once it is in the wilderness of the market. Not on the backstory of the people who helped get it ready to survive. Second, the work must be claimed by the public. Although UK copyright is seventy years after the creator's death in most cases, that does not mean the work remains theirs. Much like fandom rejected the Lucasfilm recut of the original Star Wars trilogy to change who shot first, fandoms can also collectively ignore the author's opinion of their work. Canon is merely the launchpad for a storyverse. And there is a reason alternative storylines can be so popular. A published story is not more valid; it's just more known. Many storylines have been changed for worse reasons than collective audience disagreement with the author, and many a show has backtracked to fix errors that lowered viewership. By collectively kidnapping a story and keeping it beyond teh influence of the maker, audiences can shape how it continues once it is available to consumers. And thirdly, is genuine financial severing of work from maker. The sale and loaning of officially published creative works pay the creator primarily through royalties. Buying secondhand, or borrowing from people and libraries (streaming services count how many people watch a thing) mean that the creators do not earn money from the sale. Being patient enough to wait and buy sedonhand from people who don't care in the same way allows you to enjoy the media without spending the money. Bonus- it's often cheaper and if it's very popular certain charities will have it so you can support a charity in the process. Will these bury the author forever? No, their corpse is lingering and keeps crawling out. But this is how consumers can enjoy the result of labour without participating in the resurrection and support of an maker.

T﻿he author may be dead, but they aren't gone yet, and their impact on a work is still present even if distant. Consumers are capable of severing this, but it takes time and commitment, and a complete banishment may be beyond us for living creators for now. It is not on us to solve all the problems in the world of content creation, but it is something we should all bear in mind to consume media responsibly.

B﻿arthes, R. (1977) *Image- Music- Text*. London: Fontana Press.