---
layout: post
title: Love Letter to Libraries
date: 2023-06-02T13:15:07.418Z
title_color: "#ffffff"
comments: false
---
Libraries are not new or mysterious, yet they have so much potential that is underutilised and underfunded. People are aware they exist and rent things, and many have computers, but otherwise they are just another public service only thought of as a vague one-use place. But they have numerous fabulous ways to help and provide for communities. 

F﻿irst are the basics- borrowing. People borrow media from the library, including books, audiobooks, dvds and cds, and magazines. But many people are unaware of the online resources that libraries make available. Largescale digital media companies like Overdrive and Borrowbox have huge databases built for libraries to offer to patrons to explore and utilise. All the variety of a physical library, without the issues presented by getting to the physical library. (These features were very useful during the pandemic lockdowns, where books were quarantined between loans and browsing was significantly more awkward.) Services such as these provide ebooks, audiobooks, magazine subscriptions, and even certain video media resources for documentaries, films and television series. All accessible with a simple login using a library card.

S﻿econd, is the space itself. Libraries are a space where anyone can enter, and as long as they are reasonably quiet and respectful, you can stay for hours at no cost. In certain larger locations, there are smaller rooms that can be rented out for public events, or the library iteself will host meetings for crafters or language groups. Libraries are a quiet place with free entertainment and people ready to help, providing assistance and escape to those who need or desire it.

T﻿hird are the archives. Academic libraries keep historic documents for research; public libraries sometime keep geneaology or collections of local history and folklore; specialised libraries hoard their subject matter. Information is cared for and made accessible to increase learning and awareness in a matter that encourages the active persuit of knowledge. Archival collections should be more recognised than they are, in the same way a museum is recognised for their role in the protection and display of information.

F﻿inally, libraries are, unexpectedly, about the people in them. Odd that a public service centring books and information is more about those utilising it than the service itself. (But then again, other national services make special effort to emphasise the human element. Teachers in schools, medical professionals of the NHS, humanising the politician in the local election.) The time a library feels the most active is the annual summer readin challenge. Parents, children, volunteers, librarians, all working to make this a success and memory for those pushing themselves to read and keep their minds active during the longest school holiday. Providing a cheap, regular activity and a reason to get out the house when needed, in pursuit of a pleasure-driven goal.